Propeller is any object that rotates with a stable frequency (we used a Block as a propeller) . Here the light-emitting diodes LEDs are used for displaying numbers, characters and symbols in a rotating manner. The Block which is connected to a Motor, consist of the micro-processor, LEDs and block power supply attached to the Block. The micro-processor converts the user encoded program’s (bits of information put in a system, and the system responds with desired output). The micro-processor is connected to each LED in separate slots, such that each LED is made to work separately independent of each other. When the block power supply is switched on, the micro-processor decodes and makes each LED blink at high speed, while the whole block is rotating on the Motor, therefore forming an image in LED lights.
The basic principle in this is that the blinking of the LED is set in milliseconds and when our eye captures the blinking of one moving LED as one image, therefore the path of each LED looks like a pattern traced by the light emitted, and all moving LEDs combined form the desired pattern. A precise image desired is attained by changing the rate of blinking of LED with the speed of rotation of block. Some of the features of Propeller LED Display include displaying messages in a typical manner; displaying numbers in analog and digital clocks, self-cooling systems, and so on. Propeller runs on a single battery with wall adapter facility.
The rotating LED displays can be cylindrical or disc shaped. The cylindrical displays are capable of displaying texts and digits, and the disc-shaped displays are capable of displaying analog clock. A Propeller displays its characters in a digital format

